thank you very much for to give mr.
Murphy and please do stay tuned
welcome back welcome back to
conversations where we're pleased to
welcome to the program now fill of Ag
welcome to conversations welcome back to
the United States if I may say so thank
you very much and Philip AG of course is
an ex-cia agent or a person involved
with CIA who's seen the light and
changed his view of things got into
considerable personal difficulty with
the United States over the years and I
wonder if maybe you could fill up just
for some of the people might not be
directly familiar with it your history
you were a member of the CI you were
working as a CIA operative it's already
here your old history your personal
background well it it goes back quite
some years now I was finishing my
undergraduate studies at the University
of Notre Dame in 1956 when the CIA came
around and asked me if they would if I
would go into what they considered to be
the most important training program the
way they would bring in the future
executive leadership of the agency and
as I was going on to study law at that
moment I rejected the recruitment
approach but then about a year later I
was about to be drafted it was when we
still had compulsory military service
now and so I wrote off to the CIA eight
because they had told me that if I
hadn't done my military service I could
do it within this training program and
so I wrote back and six months later I
was in the CIA uh-huh and they sent me
off to military training basic training
and then officer candidate school I was
commissioned a second lieutenant worked
for a year as an intelligence officer in
the Air Force and then was transferred
back to Washington went through the
year-long training program there and by
the end of nineteen sixty before
nineteen sixty was out at age 25 I was
down in South America running secret
operations as a CIA officer undercover
as a US diplomat in the US Embassy
having received a fairly good education
in the process and the standards and the
rigorous standards they set or you know
that's in my character you think the
terms of the foreign service is being a
very high calling and you think of other
services but the quality of the people
that they bring to that CIA activity is
it a high calling is it something i
would say in turn
the background in the convention of
conventional education certainly very
high they took in about 50 to 55 people
a year for this training program yeah
that's not very many not at all and the
problem was that I left University with
an honors degree in philosophy yeah but
with no education no political education
was what I'm trying to say yeah and I
didn't get a political education till I
got down to Latin America and I saw the
realities of the situation down there
and little by little I came to
understand that the things that I were
doing was doing was not really in the
security interest of the United States
rather they were therefore or we were
doing all these things for stability and
here I'm talking about propping up
friends political parties of interfering
in elections establishing trade unions
putting out literature of all sorts of
funding radio stations all of what is
known as covered action operations and
these are all based on the collection of
intelligence and then you use the
intelligence to try to manipulate events
in a foreign country the end result was
that we were seeking stability by
propping up the traditional ruling
classes of those countries meaning what
they call down there the Oleg our keys
these are the few families that over the
many generations have been able to
corner most of the wealth and income and
the land in those countries and so I
gradually turned against the work and
eventually after eight years in Latin
America quit but at that time it was
nineteen sixty eight by then well I had
no intention of writing a book uh-huh I
was simply going to stay in Mexico and
start a new life yeah I went to work
with the company they're people I had
met already when I was in the CIA and I
also rien rolled in university I went
into a doctoral program in the National
University of Mexico on
American history and culture and so
forth I thought maybe I might come back
to the states to teach at one point but
a broader year or year and a half after
I had left the CIA all those old
pressures of secrecy and discipline and
security consciousness had began to fade
away and as they faded I began to think
what had previously been unthinkable and
no one had ever done it before that is
to write a book about how the CIA
operates abroad yeah all the different
types of operations but with real
operations I describing what I my
colleagues have been do stuff yeah well
I've tried to start that book in Mexico
and I couldn't get the documentation I
needed because I didn't have all it
everything in my memory yeah so to make
a long story short I left Mexico went to
Paris then went on to London and five
years after I started I had the book
finished and that is the book which is
known as inside the company CIA diary
yeah it was first published in Britain
in order to avoid censorship in states
and then it came out in I think now 29
languages yeah I amazing and what year
did that co-op first came out of 1975
and it's nuts it's still coming out
still coming out in a box of that
because you're showing that owner would
you back up a little bit one goes to the
CIA and you think of many friends I have
friends and acquaintances or what who
had worked with the OSS at the second
war and the growth of the intelligence
capability of the United States which
many of the people feel they were serve
a good purpose what they were involved
in that and the others everything and
intelligence is important government
need information and so forth when if we
have did something change that put the
United States into a position which
seems now to be using covert action this
kind of intelligence gathering to only
prop up oligarchy troubles but the
United States go wrong if they did and
why did the covert action and the the
work of the CIA becomes so important in
terms of our foreign policy initiatives
in view of the world in your
division if you understand that Fred's
yes it's and he's like a Warren and that
kind of thing yes it's easy we could
talk about this for hours you know but I
think it really if you want to put your
finger on a particular moment it's the
passage of the National Security Act of
1947 which began the establishment
excuse me was this signals the
establishment of the national security
state in this country and it grows out
of economic problems after World War two
which were anticipated even before the
war was over which led to the marshall
plan for reconstruction of western
europe which was unsuccessful that most
people think the marshall plan was a
great success in fact it was a failure
and it required the military option
taken in 1952 re militarize both the
United States and Western Europe with
West Germany and the other NATO
countries but especially west germany as
the hub it was a so-called dollar gap
period in which there weren't enough
dollars in Western Europe to buy exports
from the United States to prop up the
economy here Marshall Plan was a failure
it was a leader favorite theater no no
most people the common interpretation is
there was great success thought it would
have thought it would be you meant I can
I can refer to you to some very
interesting studies among others the
classic book which came out in the late
60s about about this period which is
called the limits of power it's written
by Gabrielle and Joyce cocoa Wow their
professors in Canada and it is the story
of the first ten years and they explode
all these myths like the Marshall Plan
and in any case the decision was taken
in 1952 increased the military budget
many times over and it got us on a
national security militaristic footing
the CIA was part of that and the CIA
from the very beginning was not used
just to collect intelligence that's what
one feels that intelligence service
should do collect information process
the information and then present it to
the policy makers like the president
secretary of state secretary of defense
for their decisions yeah but they get
doing policy things are setting policy
themselves in fact carrying
well an actual fact at the very first
meeting of the National Security Council
in 1947 after the bill was passed and
signed by Truman and Truman was in the
chair at this meeting the decision was
taken to set aside 10 million dollars
for secret CIA intervention in the
upcoming Italian elections which were
scheduled for april nineteen forty eight
ten million dollars a huge amount of
money indeed in those days yeah and this
money was set aside because there was
fear that a left-wing coalition of
socialists communists and others would
win the first elections in Italy after
liberation in 1944 from fascism ah the
reason was that these political forces
had been the backbone of the resistance
to more than 20 years of fascism yeah in
Italy right all right and so they came
out of the war very strong yes and the
fear was that they might win these first
election ah so the money was passed out
these ten million dollars through front
organizations in Italy through the
Vatican through italian-american
organizations in this country and the
result was that the Christian Democrats
that is the far right conservatives won
the elections and that wasn't the end of
it over the next 30 years more than 100
million dollars went to the Christian
Democratic Party of video it offend
Italy a lot to keep them in power
exactly so the die was cast in terms of
exactly as late as 1976 President Ford
approved six or eight million dollars to
the Christian Democrats for the
elections that were scheduled for june
of 1976 so you see it's a continuing
thing and it wasn't just Italy but the
euphoria after the 1948 election
operation in Italy led to the creation
of the very bureaucratic structure to
repeat this all over the world and i
myself was involved in in latin america
yeah you were one of those that had been
recruited to carry this out that's right
and so this is what you have the CIA
doing from the very beginning and I am
very strong about feel strongly about
the point that the United States needs
an intelligence service but the United
States we need an intelligence service
that keeps the peace not one that is
used to wage terrorist war against
defenseless peasants in Central America
and that is the way the Reagan
administration and now the Bush
administration is threatening to
continue
has been using the CIA but it's not
anything new to them because also
starting in 1947 there were paramilitary
operations against every country of
Eastern Europe mm-hmm they were the
Contras of that period absolute failure
those operations went on from at least
from 1947 until nineteen fifty-five and
not one of them succeeded because the US
side the forces that we recruited
trained and dispatched were like the
Contras they had absolutely no political
base they had no popularity the people
in the late 40s early 50s had served in
the Nazi puppet regimes of the occupied
countries of Eastern Europe during World
War two all right and with the retreat
of the Soviet of the German forces these
people came with the Germans and they
ended up after the war in displaced
persons kill many of them right and
that's where the CIA screened them
selected them recruited them train them
and then dispatch them through so-called
black overflights or maritime and
filtrations to try to carry out sabotage
terrorism foment rebellion that kind of
thing just like the countries I've been
doing in the 1980s now in Nicaragua
without so all of these things begin at
the beginning back in the 1940s and they
are continuous you know and all 42 years
of the existence of the CIA so you have
the attempt to penetrate and manipulate
the institutions of power of other
countries through covered interventions
known as covered action operations or
special activities and this is the
subversion really of so-called
pluralistic democratic institutions
because obviously to the degree that a
fund political party or a trade union or
a media institution like a newspaper are
controlled by foreign power ie the CIA
in the United States to that degree
they're not free at all and it's all
done with money and with people who've
been corrupted baits hours and so forth
and that insolence is becoming and
growing stronger all the time round the
world and the third world countries of
the world
that has been the attempt the goal has
been control that's the bottom line
control is a word that every CI a
trainee learns very early on it means
long range control of the natural
resources of the labor and of the
markets of foreign countries for the
benefit of United States multinational
corporations that's what it comes down
and that is defined as the national
interest that's defined as the national
interest of course in order to effect
this control it takes a lot of political
repression because not only are there
these operations to influence elections
or to collect information or to
establish trade unions or influence the
media even to control it to finance it
to establish newspapers for example a
magazine but there is what are known as
liaison operations this is a form of
counterintelligence in which the CIA
works with other foreign intelligence
and security services all over the world
it started with the British right after
World War two but it expanded all over
the world and the CIA set up subsidiary
intelligence services all over the world
beginning for example in Greece in
Greece you know the civil war that raged
in Greece from 1947 to 1949 we the
United States intervened militarily on
the side of the far right in Greece
which won the war and in the aftermath
of CIA set up the KY p or keep KY Pete
being the Greek initials for Central
Intelligence Agency I just gave it the
same name and this was the instrument
for political oppression and control in
Greece for many many years to come
leading up to the fascist coup in Greece
in 1967 when the liaison officer of the
key K YP with the CIA station in Athens
became the leader of the military junta
his name was Colonel George papadopolis
and he was the liaison contact with or
principal liaison contact meaning he was
paid a salary no doubt by the CIA when
they set up the Korean Central
Intelligence Agency and to this day
although it has a different name this
has been the institution for political
control and repression in South Korea
and I could go around where I
is there but today you can be sure as
sure of this as you are of your own name
that the CIA is working every day round
the clock with the murderous security
and intelligence services of a Salvador
which are the same as the death squads
which have wiped out more than 70,000
people since the u.s. program began yes
in serious and 1981 yeah 70,000 people
and this is one of the principal
elements of any conference
counterinsurgency operation you know
that they've been getting more than a
million a half dollars a day in these
eight year they've gotten three and a
half billion dollars yeah the CIA put
millions of dollars into the electoral
campaign in 1984 to get Duarte elected
which they succeeded in doing and the
work with the security services in El
Salvador is one of the grisliest
activities in our day right now all the
way all the while we're teaching
anti-terrorism is of what were some of
them of course but if they're in
operations in the world with fomenting
state terrorism all over the place how
has it been we had a revolutionary
tradition in the United States we came
out of the second war and into the
anti-colonial era without perhaps the
same bag as that many of the European
countries did visit V the colonial
colonized world and so forth it was a
good deal of reservoir of goodwill or
sense of goodwill are feeling toward the
example in the the example of the United
States and one wonders where and how we
went wrong to where the United States
seems now to have gotten itself
irrevocably into a position of
respecting only oligarchy and stable
right-wing governments almost around the
world and how has it been that we've
gotten ourselves into that position and
unable somehow at a policy level or the
philosophical level political leadership
level with some system that allows us to
relate in some manner or means to the
aspirations in the needs of the vast
majority of the masses of the people of
this planet where we gone wrong and is
that a major problem we don't have a
political philosophy that allows us to
relate to the needs of the underclasses
of the world I think that's been from
the beginning and I would take issue
when you say that we had our own
revolutionary tradition I would say
I think the evidence is overwhelming
that the framers of the Constitution the
founding fathers were this Oh lagake
were talking about in other countries
and if they started out as an elite
governing body which they were they were
the bankers the merchants the landowners
the lawyers the slaveholders of colonial
society they were the people with the
money in other words and they wrote the
Constitution to preserve and enhance
their own private wealth they were
scared to death of democracy and there's
evidence after evidence I refer you to
and all the viewers to a recent book
just out a couple of months ago
published by south end press it is
called toward an American Revolution and
the author is a professor whose name is
Jerry frisia and he takes Charles beards
earlier analyses and much further
applying them to today and I think when
I go to university speaking and I've
spoken at more than a hundred places in
the last year and a half I say that that
made me the best ten dollars that any
student could ever spend hearing for
years in education because it explodes
the myth as irreverent as that may be
for us Americans expose the myth of the
grandeur of the Constitution and of the
founding fathers because they were
looking at them after themselves they
were scared to death of democracy of
real democracy and they wrote out of the
political process completely all of the
indentured labourers all the men without
property all the neighbor Native
Americans they were savages all the
blacks most of them were slaves and all
of the women well they started the
Constitution we the people of the United
States and they were less than ten
percent people right well they democracy
was a new idea in a certain sense in the
political frame yes but it hasn't
changed that much I don't think you know
what we have in the United States today
what do we have two percent of the
families in this country owning
fifty-four percent of the net financial
assets yeah the United States five
percent virtually on at all well I used
to think that the the concentration of
wealth and income in Latin America was a
scandal until I began to see what it was
in the states in that figure of two
percent only fifty four percent yes is
not something out of the air they don't
understand the Catholic Bishops pasture
land
is that it becomes more and more
concentrated as you and I sit here and
talk well we've just seen in recent days
that during the eight years of Reaganism
the rich people in the united states
have gotten a whole lot richer and the
poor people have gotten a whole lot
poorer and that's why i say that we've
never been revolutionary we've never had
the masses of the population under
consideration really it's been
stabilizing the situation keeping them
under control having escape valve so
that poor people can get rich if they're
very lucky if you what it means that one
in three Americans do not have the
slightest chance or hope of ever
realizing the American dream one in
three Americans is illiterate either
totally one in three is that hi guys are
totally or to the degree that they
cannot function in a society based on
the written word such as street signs
read read illiteracy and unethical
exactly yeah in a country that is as
wealthy as this one is it's a disgrace
absolutely this girl so the people who
might be very has sanguine or saying
speaking of Pierzynski others saying
that peace through strength the
capitalism is winning out the Soviet
system is disarray social systems aren't
disarray in people who are celebrating
almost arrogantly in many cases the
success and the forever ongoing
leadership position of the capitalist
market economy I realized in terms of
your estimation in terms of the
prospects for our planet well I think
that a lot of course any arrogance is
run after I very very strongly that the
CIA support to torture abroad the
institutionalization of torturing
country after country around the world
the support to the security services
that repress and murder their own people
to the death squads this very nasty in
grizzly activity along with all the
other things that the CIA does abroad
the subversive democratic institutions
the overthrow of democratically elected
civilian governments and their
replacement with military dictatorships
of a neo-fascist stripe all those
activities proceeded from our domestic
system
when I was the CIA SDI a trainee I was
taught that the Soviet foreign policy
expansionism belligerents and so forth
was a direct product of their internal
system that is the requirements of the
Communist Party of the Soviet Union to
maintain a monopoly on power yeah well I
think any political science scientists
would agree a nation's domestic system
determines its foreign policy and if we
have elite control in this country
controlled by people who come from those
two percent of the families that own
fifty-four percent of the wealth then
those people are defining the national
security and they're defining it in
their own interests just as the framers
of the Constitution about the document
in their own interest and they wrote it
because they wanted to have the people
who owned the united states governed the
united states how do we do we still have
that situation and again i really felt
about how do we deal with that kind of a
situation as far as the United States is
concerned in your estimation is the
political process of trying to find
meaningful reform or transformation
through the mainline political parties
or how do we do do we need political
leadership or what absolutely what is
the path that you could well of course I
see the rainbow coalition that movement
is very very positive because it is
widening widening the political debate
you know there's bring concepts such as
economic violence in to the mainstream
whereas up until now these concepts were
fringe practically and so I think that
that's an extremely important movement
and when I see the weakening of the CIA
as a very important element I see it as
an element which will help liberate
other people because the struggle of the
people of Nicaragua is our struggle
every victory of the Nicaraguans the
Cubans also is our victory because that
weakens the pollute the Imperial project
begun more than 200 years ago and it
means own changes and liberation in this
country are that much easier if that's
why it's very important to be in
solidarity and to work with those people
it's a little bit difficult for
Americans to be able to start thinking
about if you say liberation movements of
people third world peoples and so forth
what they're going to liberate
themselves from in many many instances
is the hedge emoni of the United States
of America
in the United States of America becomes
the bastion of conservative reactionary
power or in other words in a certain
sense the enemy in the minds of
increasing numbers of people
particularly in the developing world
they have that view of the United States
that's something that's a very little
hard for Americans to swallow when they
like to think about this as being the
fount of wisdom and and all good things
in this world yeah well what I'm saying
absolutely and are the symbolism is in
the flag as if we're one nation
undivided with liberty and justice for
all whereas an actual fact that
symbolism covers what is basically a
fractured society and when you speak of
the United States Indian interest the
United States it's not all the people of
the United States it's those very few
who run and control the United States
these activities of the CIA abroad which
I've been discussing are in the
interests of those few people the CIA
when it supports desk was is doing
exactly what it's supposed to do because
the CIA doesn't have its own policy it
is told what to do by the President of
the United States it's his instrument
and he uses it as he would he wishes of
course he tries to deny certain things
and keep a distance like Reagan did from
all of the Oliver North stuff but in
actual fact the CIA does not have its
own policy and for that reason it is
told to do things that are interest in
the interest of not the vast majority of
Americans not yours not mine but in the
interests of just a few people whose
wealth is based on the operations of
American companies in countries around
the world so when Brzezinski or someone
else talks about America no that is a
typical figure of speech used to make it
look as if we all have common interest
in an actual fact we don't at all there
is no way you can divine national
security in this country which would be
in the interest of all the people that's
why it's so important to think in terms
of breaking the imperial project
becoming a long time ago that is as it
manifested abroad and also within the
United States to create a real democracy
a government which serves the interests
of all the people and not just the
priority is a very few each person can
have a
in this country where they can vote an
election less than fifty percent do we
do it to that degree than having a
certain sense in the political democracy
and that there are these party systems
allowed and so forth economically were
very much of a plutocracy I mean the
ownership as you point out five percent
only 54 two percent only in fifty four
percent and five percent virtually
perhaps owning at all most people only
have a wage relationship to production
and so forth gives us a problem in terms
of of that broad perspective of how we
can see some sort of a transformation
but we have this kind of a situation now
and one wonders how are in your
estimation you you have sixty to
sixty-five percent of the population
vote mr. Reagan who was in a very real
sense reactionary both domestic and an
international scale most popular
president to leave the presidency and lo
these many decades and how do we explain
the fact that there are so many people
were in support of him and what was
going on even though was acting against
the interests of many of the people of
our country and the world I mean is it a
matter of the media is it a matter of
gender yes sir well I'll give you an
example this illustrates the problem and
the solution a recent poll a few months
ago was taken on Americans attitudes
toward el salvador toward the government
of el salvador and you know this is the
Duarte government it's the one that's
received three and a half billion
dollars million and a half dollars a day
which exceeds the national budget it has
been heralded from years now as the
showcase of the restoration of what they
call democracy in Central America
Americans ought to know something about
the governors of El Salvador yeah all
right what the result fifteen percent
only fifteen percent of americans
according to the poll which is taken by
a professional poster organization in
detroit only fifteen percent of
americans believe that El Salvador has a
democratic government mm-hmm
thirty-three percent of Americans going
to the poll don't have the slightest
idea what kind of government El Salvador
has but then the revelation thirty-five
percent of americans think that El
Salvador has a pro Soviet government
good lord they didn't say what the other
seventeen percent thought but it doesn't
surprise me if they have Duarte confused
with Cold mania and think that there's a
is Lama krennel mentalist government in
El Salvador it's it's ignorance it's
apathy its lack of interest really that
keeps Americans badly informed that's
the big yeah well of course it's school
time every every every survey of
Americans ability and mathematics and
geography and every name is practically
it's it's shocking because I'm over in
Europe where people are really being
educated yeah and we're children that as
young people are paid to go to
university they don't have to mortgage
the farm to go to university they get a
stipend from the government because
those governments realize that the
future is in the youth right and they
should be given every opportunity to
have an education and here we do not
yeah I have the self-serving kind of
thing and the United States is going in
this direction you're also in touch from
Spain and you were in Spain partly
because it was a little bit difficult
for you to be here people thought you
were subversive or something of that
sort of thing we know that you had I
mean people government we're seeing you
for having well it's a long some
difficult it's a very long story i had
terrible difficult it's in this book in
fact right that's what I don't know that
right now maybe you could come in tight
let's show that Philip AG is is the
latest ones called on the run out
now Stuart last or they came out of year
and a half ago yes okay yeah so you've
got that in there this thing about you
that's the whole story of the last 20
years of my life since I left the CIA
its the hole it's a whole series of
adventure stories about how they
followed me around in the streets to CIA
knew I was writing my first book now his
early 70s they followed me around in the
streets these teams of people in Paris
and in London and Madrid and I went
underground in Paris
a couple of young Americans befriended
me and they gave me money when I had no
money for food I was destitute I get the
book done they gave me typewriter when I
had no copyrighted work with and it
turned out that by chance I discovered
inside the typewriter a radio
transmitter secretly hidden in the case
of the typewriter which allowed CIA
people to locate the secret place i was
living underground and I caught the the
monitors a minute they caught me you're
very emotional scene yeah imagine yeah
and then I went on to finish my book and
it also includes the stories about how
is expelled from Britain how was jailed
and put in prison in Germany in and then
expelled kidnapped in France thanks
bailed expelled from Holland from Italy
and not allowed to enter Norway I mean
it was just going on for several years
sorry had to go through all of that you
know I expected yeah I expected
retaliation you had been saying some
things about the CIA and the system of
American we've got you erase it I not
just died I mean they always like to
focus on me but in fact there was
hundreds of pecans laughs well John
eventually came along in this in this
ncia campaign and there were journalists
of every sort all over Europe and affect
all over the world who were working on
exposing the CIA in their own countries
that is the operations and the people
that do it because those are the two
factors that are most important in
weakening the CIA as an instrument for
political repression or for subversion
of democratic institution it's an hour
it's in it's an our interest trying
weaken the instruments of our foreign
policy of the certain sense the policy
has changed policy has been the same
since Truman and if there were justice
in this world Truman and every president
since him would be in prison or would
have ended up behind bars because
article 6 I think it is that the
Constitution says that treaties will be
the supreme law of the land when signed
by the President and ratified by the
Senate you know and we have violated
treaties constantly every single day
since 1947 you know and so that alone
not not to mention a lot of other things
would should have brought these
presidents behind bars and Reagan
himself know if it very well big have
been impeached because the iran-contra
affair but the powers that be in this
country did not want another
constitutional crisis our crisis of
legitimacy that calls into question the
whole system yeah one wonders if they're
able to just do that so cavalierly
without there being mean the North
Tyler's are now and whether or not the
whole story is written on that one
wonders if there is likely to be any
until any action brought against you no
involvement of mr. Reagan mr. bush or
any of the others who might have been
involved with drug smuggling and all
kinds of things that are coming out of
Central America it's incredible it's
incredible you know we've had some
criminals in the White House but they
became criminals after they got in no
this one is a criminal before I even got
into the White House and you know what a
bush yes well the reason is that an
illegal contra resupply operation at a
time when the Congress had caught off
the money and it was fed that was
financed by the cocaine Barons of
Columbia was run out of Bush's office
during nineteen eighty-three eighty-four
eighty-five that's established and clear
and of course is going to all newspapers
not put it on me like that how can
something like that go on without there
being I mean what is the what are we to
think when something like that go on in
the man still serving job because nobody
wants another crisis like the head with
Nixon and Watergate an impeachment
process just makes the the ruling elite
in this country quake because it brings
the system into question and the
legitimacy I mean and we have a rules of
the game in this country political rules
of the game established by the
Constitution which keeps the debate very
narrow and the Constitution these rules
are very hard to change what it does
really is create the situation in when
we go out and vote republican or
democratic we are basically making a
choice between on the one hand to Italy
and on the other Tweedledum because you
can imagine a much different scheme of
government which would serve people
where you wouldn't have homeless you
wouldn't have illiterate you wouldn't
have people who are hungry we have the
means to create that society but under
these rules of the game we can't do it
doesn't happen we have the not only
through our own society but the world
and a very real celica before you're in
Spain and the vision of the United
States of America among the peoples Asia
Africa and Latin America is our the
division of the United States of America
is in decline in that my absolutely
masses of the people no no there's a
distinction in anybody who's politically
aware and his money her mind between the
government yeah and the people who run
the United States mmm the economic
forces behind the government and the
people of the United States I have had
that most Marvis reception everywhere
I've gone from ordinary people yeah
because they know that i am not part of
that ruling elite or click not part of
political repression anymore that kind
of thing so my resections have been
fantastic and people know that there is
a difference they know that there are
Americans at work every day in this
country to try to change the system to
work in solidarity with the people of El
Salvador or with Nicaragua or with Cuba
or with Grenada even though but much
more so before the collapse of the
revolution there and with people's all
over the world who are trying to change
the system they are trying to break the
control of generations of these
so-called 14 families in El Salvador or
the Oleg arc is elsewhere in the world
of the world we have to do that here 20
acres take a lesson from them and one of
the points I try to make to all the
students I talked to is that they should
look to the students of El Salvador
right now for an example because those
students are the Salvador are going out
on the streets constantly they are
laying their life on the line every day
for what they believe in to create a
just and better society for everybody
just as the Nicaraguans have created a
revolution in the name of the poor of
that country yeah and the oppressed I
guess what i was saying the masses of
the people of the world are less
inclined towards see in the united
states in favorable terms and they have
we're losing ground among the masses of
the people of the world sharicka the
official capacity representation of the
united states of america I tried because
people see that the ministry of the
official acceptance or let's say the
acceptance of official policies in the
united states
meaning whatever comes out of government
now is certainly in decline absolutely
all over the place oh but people there
know they know perfectly well that there
is a whole movement going on in this
country for change and it may be weak it
may be small it may not be as strong now
is the one issue like end of the it na
mor ya at confident that there are
Americans working on it and so America
is basically admired and loved by people
all over the world for the popular
culture for example for the diversity
for the spontaneity for the civil
liberties and things like that but what
they don't like Inupiat nuclear weapons
militarism trying to crush one of the
poorest countries in the world Nicaragua
terrorists CIA activity absolutely yeah
that is what turns more people against
the United States then then you can
imagine and more and more people ought
to understand that that's the position
that we have we really do need some sort
of a philosophy political philosophy or
vision that allows us to relate to the
needs of underclass poor people of the
not only of the world but also of our
nation and we have our streets filled
with homeless and that sort of thing we
really do need that that does not seem
to come out of the mainstream political
the political dialogue who drive
initialize relates to that need on a
third and that's part of a part of a
national strength as it were in terms of
the in the most real realpolitik kind of
terms we do need that kind of vision and
we like it I mean the United States of
America does in its tradition our
problem is that elitist view that we've
been talking about but what we do in the
United States is we we allow or
officially we allow these people to be
neutralized so that they're not a
political threat there was no demand for
crack in 1980-81 because there was
practically things back practically this
was invented and the demand was invented
you hear this talk about stopping the
demand subside rather than the source
side what an actual fact this crack
epidemic in the United States right now
raises some interesting questions for
example isn't there some kind of
political dividend
that for every ghetto youth who gets on
crack or gets addicted to some other
drug is one potential political activist
less who has everything to gain by
radical change in this country this is a
whole generation there millions of kids
who are being turned on to crack and off
to politics and particularly when you
see that the government at the highest
levels have been involved in the
bringing of drugs into this country
exactly it makes it just seemed almost a
question that the the realities of the
situation have to be called into
question and it seems to be if I may
your work and your books and your
activity and so forth has been one of
the leading people who are bringing us a
new kind of vision a different kind of
vision you did it a considerable
personal discomfort to yourself and so
forth and I wanted to thank you
personally for all right over the years
and so forth and of course the book let
me show once again I'm the run Phil of
aging is it it's five books now that
you've written over the longer haul and
he keeps working on these issues and
it's been your pleasure i want to thank
you for that in particular just putting
conversations here thank you very much
for the invitation interesting series
that we've got interesting conferences
we have here what is it the socialist
scholars conference here in New York
City it where we are now talking and I
want again thank you very much bill
evasion ever have to be with you okay
fine it's your pleasure who could say
then it's course been Philip AG your
pleasure to have these perceptions we'll
be doing more next week from this
conference at the at the social people
of the socialist scholars conference in
New York that's it for this particular
segment we'll see you again next week
Philip once again thank you very much
indeed goodnight we'll see you next week
stopping the demand subside rather than
the source side well in actual fact this
crack epidemic in the United States
right now raises some interesting
questions for example isn't there some
kind of political dividend but for every
ghetto youth who gets on crack or gets
addicted to some other drug is one
potential political activist less who
has everything to gain by radical change
in this country this is a whole
generation there are millions of kids
who are being turned on to crack and off
to politics and particularly when you
see that the government at the highest
levels have been involved in the
bringing of drugs into this country so
easily it makes it just seemed almost a
question that the the realities of the
situation have to be called into
question and it seems to me if I may
your work in your books and your
activity and so forth has been one of
the leading people who are bringing us a
new kind of vision a different kind of
vision you did it a considerable
personal discomfort to yourself and so
forth and I wanted to thank you
personally probably worried over the
years and so forth and of course the
book let me show it once again on the
run Phil of aging is it is five books
now that you've written over the longer
haul and he keeps working on these
issues and it's been your pleasure i
want to thank you for that in particular
just putting conversations here thank
you very much for the invitation
interesting series that we've got
interesting conferences we have here
what is it the socialist scholars
conference here in new york city did
where we are now talking and i want
again thank you very much for beijing
done I'm gonna have to be with you okay
fine is your pleasure how could say then
it's been Philip AG your pleasure to
have these perceptions we'll be doing
more next week from this conference at
the at the socialist people of the
socialist scholars conference in New
York that's it for this particular
segment we'll see you again next week
Philip once again thank you very much
indeed good night we'll see you next
week okay